these touch-me-not
balsam have sprung up to cover the
wooden floor each night the leaves go
limp as the balsam exudes any excess
moisture in the waterlogged soils of the
Lake District this is a handy adaptation
[Music]
soon their blues unfurl
as the petals of these strange shaped
flowers drop off seed pots begin to form
[Music]
these pots are the favorite food of the
netted carpet moth caterpillar although
it was once thought to be extinct the
netted carpet moth survives here in the
Lake District its last remaining
stronghold touch-me-not balsam is their
only source of food
[Music]
these plants have a surprise in store
their seed heads explode it's how they
became known as touch-me-not but nobody
told the caterpillars this
[Music]
the caterpillars have no warning when
these little bombs go off it's not just
seeds that get hurled across the forest
floor
[Music]
[Applause]